# Open Source Advisory Board
November 21, 2018, 9am-10:30am

## Agenda
1. Welcome
2. Open Government/Open Government Summit
3. Open Decision Framework
4. Update and discussion: People Working Group
5. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
6. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group
7. Roundtable
8. Close/discussion forward agenda

## 1. Introduction
Attendees
* Will Stevens, CloudOps
* Gabrielle Cossette, SSC
* Mike Gifford, OpenConcept
* Filippo Gagliardi, Cloudera
* John Campbell,
* Michael Cardy, Redhat
* Elizabeth Rhodenizer, Environment Canada
* Heather Laird, TBS
* Stacey Williams, TBS
* Caster, Github
* Dugald Topshee, Justice
* Richard Seguin, Redhat
* Melanie Robert, TBS
* Derek Alton, TBS
* Paul Jackson, TBS
* John Bain

## 2. Open Government/ Open Government Summit
To view this presentation, please consult the [2019 Open Government Partnership Global Summit Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/82)
Question/feedback
* Where do we go to propose presentations?
  * It has not started yet, it will happen around Christmas time.
* How do we propose topics?
  * Fill out the survey: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdLX-EtCPVsP22mVDJj80b9Wcpl5_u82HwINpnu4IUVJjSyWQ/viewform
  * Based on the survey, will have top 15 topics to share with Open Global community and ask for subject matter experts to speak on the topics identified
  * Broader call for proposals will be mid-December and we are hoping to have an agenda early in the spring
* The Summit is about having a discussion with opposing views, not so much a vendor pitch
* Private companies are encouraged to be a part of the summit panel
* If we do the survey/ somewhere to put your email to be put on the summit mailing list for updates/call for proposals?
  * Follow Open Government on twitter: @OpenGovCan for updates. You can subscribe to the mailing list and website for the Summit (ogpsummit.org) will also be created soon
* Are you asking for sponsorship/ partnerships with other government departments in the organization of the summit?
  * Yes, hoping a government department will be taking a track, i.e. Heritage organized Canada 150 so they can help organize the reception
  * Trying to have live streaming available
  * If departments would like to help with the summit, let the open government team know
* Can private companies provide sponsorship?
  * Yes, a partnership package will be available on the ogp website which will explain how we will get into partnerships
  * Partnerships to support mutual interests(I.e. partnership to host with a discussion on a particular topic)
  * Does participating in the tech for good trade show interest/ provide value to vendors?
    * Yes it does. Private companies can showcase the services they provide to governments (federal, provincial, municipal)/ open data community
    * If you have participated in trade shows in the past and have any advice on how this tradeshow should be organized, please let the open government team know
* Entered a tri-lateral partnership with Open Government TBS, GAC, and the OGP based in Washington
  * GAC is helping with logistics
* There has not been much discussion about engaging with academics
  * Engaged with discussions from profs from the university of Ottawa and Carleton university
  * Academic day will be run by the academics. Highlights from this day will be mentioned during the plenary session

## 3. Open Decision Framework
To view this presentation, please consult the [Open Decision Framework Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/83)
* The Open Decision Framework Focuses on best practices and provides step by step instructions and is shared under creative commons licence so you can re-use it
  * When it is left to interpretation, people are not sure that they are going in the right direction
Questions
* Have you thought about the sizes of teams when working in the open decision framework that causes problems? Have you considered mixing people with different skill sets (i.e. business analysts, developers, IT specialists) into teams and work together?
  * How do you get into a state where everyone feels empowered and people don’t feel like they have to ask for permission?
  * Redhat is very forgiving and tries not to be hampered by their organizational design.
  * Has Redhat had any issues with managers reluctant to allow their team members to participate in the tiger teams/ joining other initiatives across the company?
    * We need to articulate to the managers the long term benefit of an employee working on the project (i.e. development opportunity)
    * Have a discussion about managing time and meeting the deadlines
    * We also need a discussion with managers to understand why they may be resistant to this idea

## 4. Update and discussion: People Working Group
* Struggling to promote a culture of open
* Starting to build graphics to share on GCCollab
* Christopher Allison moved to the CSPS
  * Digital academy curriculum there will be courses on open source
* Raise awareness: showcase successful projects using open source software/releasing it in the government of Canada

## 5. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
* Putting together a reference architecture for actual use and re-use(I.e. data visualization)

## 6. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group
* Please provide feedback on the roadmap if you haven’t already
* If anyone would like to help with specific tasks, please let either Marc Pageau or Dugald Topshee know

## 7. Roundtable
* Github will look at the Rules working tasks and see if they can help
* Richard Seguin to work with Gabrielle Cossette on a presentation for the Summit
* Enhance governance on CKAN
* Started writing directives on Github, would like to come back to the board for recommendations
* What open source tools are being used in the federal, provincial, municipal, international governments?
  * Check out the [open resource exchange](https://github.com/canada-ca/ore-ero)
* Challenge using open source software but the solution isn't necessarily and open source solution
* Licensing framework update
  * ISED to reach out to Stacey
* Wondering about open exchange and sharing information
  * we have GCTools
### Guillaume's notes

Roll call

John Bain

Open government
need private sector involvement
how do we engage companies in the Open Gov?
How do we connect with OSS?
How do we create the community?

Chance to effect the movement
* Include the private sector

Open Data - Canada is num. 1

Inclusion of provinces and municipalities are working with us
* Not a silo initiative

Summit: up to 1500 participants

Shaw Center May 29-31, 2019

Possibility to self-create a side event
* Could be show-cased on the website - Opportunity
* Agenda is self governed: need link to share
  * Opportunity to have hard discussions on the stage

Key objective:
* Domestic engagement
* Peer learning
* Global influence

Summit Themes and Content
* Bold are items that might be of interest to OSS community
* Beneficial ownership: who owns which companies

https://open.canada.ca/en/content/open-government-partnership-global-summit-2019

Action item:
* Get involve and review agenda/themes
* How can we include private sector
* How can open source be featured at OGS

To have access to the presentation proposal: Twitter link will be broadcasting

Survey is up, need to have link:


One of the topics that is currently hard to do: services to citizens (how does open data help provide better services to citizens)

Caveat: not the place for a vendor pitch * People will throw shoes at you
* Why Open or why not.

Tech for good. Good outcome to have

Twitter account is the best place to receive updates and mailing list provides monthly summaries.

Departments and private companies can provide

Tech tradeshow: exposure with participants from around the world.
* Location would be in the windowed area.

DPI could provide some additional input.

Monday-Tuesday are not 100% organized by GC
Wednesday-Thursday main event for Open Data

## Open Decision Framework

Having an open decision Framework helped to support the organisation's growth

Disconnection between employee and higher management, open decision Framework helps bridge that disconnect. Cultural challenges, multiple ways of communicating.

Bigger decisions went better than some smaller ones that caused unrest amongst the employees.

Lead to Open Decision Framework

Step-by-step wasn't so much valuable but people needs to know Why they are doing something. When open to interpretation, people sometimes feel insecure.

Question: how can we apply this to government?

Discussing in the open can be more productive since it captures many perspectives.

Activate ambassadors, equip community to promote project.

Need to enhance governance around the Open Government with Drupal, CKAN, etc.
* What can we do to have contributors from other governments.
