[Français](../../fr/Rencontres/2018-03-15.md#lordre-du-jour-et-pr%C3%A9sentations)

# Open Source Advisory Board Meeting

March 15, 2018
9:30 - 11:00 a.m. EST

## To join the online meeting

1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com/pwgsc-nh/j.php?MTID=ma5f87490c162f382f296e433ae2a7079
2. Enter your name and email address
3. Attendee access code: 320 160 2
4. Click "Join Now"

## To joing the teleconference only

Provide your phone number when you join the meeting to receive a call back.
Alternatively, you can call:

Call-in toll-free number: 1-877-413-4781  (Canada)
Call-in number: 1-613-960-7510 (Canada)

Attendee access code: 320 160 2
Enter meeting password: g4yDBE72

## For assistance

1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com
2. On the left navigation bar, click "Support".
3. Call 1-800-226-6338 or 613-941-9554

You can contact me at: ashley.casovan@tbs-sct.gc.ca

## Agenda

1. Welcome
2. Overview of Advisory Board for new participants
3. Open Source Software at PSC
4. Business Case
5. Open Source Inventory
6. Call for agenda items

## 1. Welcome

Welcome to all of our participants in our meeting today. This meeting is growing and we are fortunate to have many people interested in this group.

## 2. Overview of Advisory Board for new participants

The Terms of Reference can be found on the [about page.](../1_About.md) If there is an issue with them, please let us know. If not we will confirm these Terms of Reference at the next meeting.

## 3. Open Source Software at PSC

To view this presentation, please visit our [issues page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/12)

### Questions

* How are you collaborating with other departments?
  * Using Github but it is challenging.
* Do you look at open standards? What about sharing closed software?
  * Interopability, we need to pick the right software with the support of the community. Need maintenance and support standards.
  * We have a different approach then other countries when it comes to sharing closed software. It's harder for larger vendor community
* Concerning Github, what security measures are in place to prevent mistakes?
  * Two controls: no one can delete and there is a backup in cloud.
  * Many controls like fork and branch to review the code before publishing it.
* License workshop April 3, 2018.
* Considerations for solving problems
  * Strength of community
  * Shouldn't pick standards to early, we need flexibility to figure out which standard would work best
  * Legal working group
* How is open source affecting experienced employees compared to new grads?
  * The experienced employees find this change difficult. It is transforming their day-to-day work.
* Will the list of participants be added [here](2018-03-15.md)?
* Why are we looking for a business case for open source software rather than for proprietary software?
* Is there alignment with the Open Source Advisory Board and the Canadian Digital Service?
* How do we get government to stop building new custom initiatives (code or policy) and start re-using and refining other initiatives?
* What is being done to shift the culture within the government?
* Is there an example of government specific licensing actually promoting adoption and collaboration? MIT, BSD, GPL… not Crown Copyright
* Is PSC using OpenShift?
  * Yes, we evaluated Open Shift and Cloud Foundry two years ago and landed on Open Shift. Our severs were prepared a few months ago by ssc and we're now tweaking the configuration before undertaking the SA&À. Richard is the manager leading this innovative project.
* Is the scope just using open source software or does it include a push to use modern software development processes like automated ci, and deploying daily?
* Should we create a slack group? No, it’s closed software other suggestions include: GCMessage, Riot, Github
  * Just recently the new IM service Rocket.Chat is up and ready at https://message.gccollab.ca/. You can sign in with your GCcollab account and join the #opensourcesoftware channel
* The province of BC pushes code to public repositories, why can’t the federal government?
* Will you be looking for SMEs to support you in your various initiatives? How can we get involved as an advisor in best practices to participate in the conversations; development frameworks, development practices, CCC solutions, AI & Intelligent assistant?

## 4. Business Case

Please go to our [business case page](../2_Business_Case.md) for further details.

## 5. Open Source Inventory

* Ashley is creating an inventory of what projects people are working on.
* Build a community of practice with the Government of Canada.

## 6. Call for agenda items

* Inventories
* Agile Procurement
* Open Source Day

## Action items

* Working groups

## Themes from the chat

* Few government agencies contribute to the open source projects
  * Need to contribute back to Open Source Software/cultural shift: fear of change and sharing information. Sometimes it’s hard to contribute back to it.
  * Culture is very important. Public servants must be trained to openly share internally (across departments) by default and always evaluate if it would benefit the public as well.
    * I.e. In 2014, Satya Nadella started Microsoft with "inner sourcing" - directed all engineers to "open source internally" - anyone at the company can see anyone else's code and use it as needed
* Not clear from today's call that government has a solid understanding of open source vendor business and license models, which can be quite sophisticated and nuanced. Would suggest a thorough assessment to help develop the strategy. Big difference between using products based on open source software vs open source, with various licensing models.
* Government needs to show leadership: Web Accessibility, I.e. Drupal.
  * Need to go to open events to get a better understanding of open source and open source tools
  * If you need someone to talk about making a business out of open source code and the licensing models I could talk to someone from the Eclipse foundation about that.
* Licensing: where is the best and most cost effective way to get licensing? Pick an existing and known license and standardize it
* Is there an option to create some sort of actual online community?
  * Just recently the new IM service Rocket.Chat is up and ready at https://message.gccollab.ca/. You can sign in with your GCcollab account and join the #opensourcesoftware channel

## Appendix A

Please see the [Open Source Examples](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/4) to view successful examples of open source, including enterprise organizations in industries that are responsible for satisfying regulatory and compliance policies.
