# Open Source Advisory Board
October 17, 2018, 9am-10:30am

## Agenda
1. Welcome
2. Open First Day Follow Up
  a. Overview of day
  b. Lessons learned
  c. Outcomes from Unconference
  d. Outcomes from policy jam
3. Upcoming events
4. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
5. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group
6. Update and discussion: People Working Group
7. ROundtable
8. Close/discussion forward agenda

## 1. Introduction
Attendees
* Ashley Casovan, TBS
* Guillaume Charest, TBS
* Melanie Robert, TBS
* Dave Buchanan, Breqwatr
* Harsh Sabikhi, Github
* Caster Parham, Github
* Richard Seguin, Redhat
* Sebastien Lemay, TBS
* Paul Jackson, TBS
* Marc Pageau, Oproma
* Will Stevens, Cloud Ops
* Robin Galipeau, Open Plus
* Gabrielle Cossette, SSC
* Mathieu Fortin, SSC
* Michael Cardy, Redhat

## 2. Open First Day Follow Up
* The Whitepaper still needs improvement
  * It is still live and open for comments, provide advice on best practices
* Policies repositories have started
  * Open standards
  * Best practices by ESDC
  * Next steps: Rules
* Feedback from survey
  * Logistics
    * Volunteer based
    * Date and location had mixed reviews
  * Content
    * The three working groups were well represented in this day
    * We are in the process of putting the presentations [online](https://canada-ca.github.io/ofd-joep/en/open-first-day-agenda.html)
    * Streaming: the recordings are available online and will be a apart of the digital academy
      * [Link to sessions held in the main room](http://video.isilive.ca/tbs/2018-09-28-0830/floor.html)
      * [Link to sessions held in the training room](http://video.isilive.ca/tbs/2018-09-28-1030/floor.html)
  * The unconference stream was a success
    * Notes from this stream are [available online](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-M15msg1zRapCzhfzxhiIA9bS7DQhSwxT9THaCBWfZ8/edit#gid=2139688380)

Feedback from the Open Source Advisory Board
* Will we have another event like this in 6-12 months?
  * Instead of having another big event, having smaller and more reoccurring events across Canada that focus on specific topics
  * Before doing another one, decide why we need to have one, who needs to be there and dependencies on other activities
* Open Government summit
  * Hosting in May
  * Melanie Robert will do a presentation at the next OSAB
  * Open Source Academic papers
  * Open standards but also open culture
* For the next event, have real time transcription
* Have more communication and blog posts after the event
  * Do more follow-ups about the day/highlights and share links
  * The tools working group can be responsible for this
* Video stream
  * Cut down the 7 hour presentation to little sound bites.
  * The Canadian School of Public Service will translate, transcribe and make it accessible.
• Create a list of things that we need help with
  * Video editing
  * Open licence
  * Policy: Complete list of open source projects
    * [Open resource exchange](https://github.com/canada-ca/ore-ero): Inventory on GC Open Source Projects
    * [GC awesome](https://github.com/swill/awesome-gc/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    * This will be discussed in the people working group
  * We need to make stories about the work we're doing

## 3. Upcoming events
* Open Government Summit
  * There will be a presentation on this at the next OSAB
  * Think about what is in it for you/how you can participate, we would like your feedback on this
* [Canadian Open Data Summit](https://opendatasummit.ca/)
* [DrupalCamp Ottawa](https://drupalcampottawa.com/#/)
* [Data strtaegy roadmap](https://gccollab.ca/groups/profile/760988/entowards-a-government-of-canada-data-strategy-vers-une-stratu00e9gie-de-donnu00e9es-du-gouvernement-du-canadafrvers-une-stratu00e9gie-de-donnu00e9es-du-gouvernement-du-canada)
  * Approved by the clerk
* [DrupalCon Seattle](https://events.drupal.org/seattle2019)
* Apex Summit
* [FWD50](https://fwd50.com/)
* D9
  * Purpose of this conference is to share best practices on digital work

## 4. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
* Present use cases
* Guillaume and others: find Greenfield opportunities/historical legacy projects/ 1 pager case study for the tools working group
* Reference architecture and solution
* Initiate small procurement process
* Follow-up with Open First Day
* Statistics Canada is re-firing up Drupal Network
  * Tools working group to look at the top 5 use cases to look at GIS data
* Send action items to Stacey at Stacey.williams@tbs-sct.gc.ca

## 5. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group
* Circulate roadmapp for this group
  * Would like feedback from the board on it. I.e. is it out of scope? Are we missing something? Are the timelines realistic? Are we prioritizing correctly?
  * Provide your feedback on it in 2 weeks
  * At the next board meeting we would like to give an update on it
* Make sure that documentation is consistent

## 6. Update and discussion: People Working Group
* Redhat: Open Decision Framework is available on Github
  * There will be a presentation on it at the next OSAB

## 7. Roundtable
* Open Data barometer
  * Canada is ranked number one with the UK
* Canadians are the 6th most popular contributors to open source projects on Github
  * https://octoverse.github.com/
* Ashley’s panel [South by Southwest](https://schedule.sxsw.com/2019/events/PP83596) got approved
* ESDC- has a working group on Open Source with a work plan, artifacts, weekly meetings, if anyone is interested can join
* Help is needed to scale open Canada portal
* We are working on a municipal Open Resource Exchange


