# Open Source Advisory Board Meeting
June 20 2018, 9am-10:30am

## Agenda
1. Introduction
2. GC Open Source Roadmap
3. Digital Playbook
4. Adapting the assessment of GC Applications for Open Source
5. Tools Working Group Presents Data Platforms: The Business Case for Hadoop
6. Update and work plan: Working Group Tools
7. Update and work plan: Working Group Rules
8. Update and work plan: Working Group People
9. Roundtable
10. Close/discussion of forward agenda

### 1. Introduction
* Three working groups have been formed through this board: Rules, Tools and People. Please contact Ashley or Guillaume if you are interested in joining one or more of these groups.

### 2. GC Open Source Roadmap
To view the GC Open Source Roadmap, please visit our Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pxSrKKiX-21IW1fSStFloUUcbPaKO5dkIB4PiEAfqYU/edit?usp=sharing

* For the adoption open source standards within Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat
* Tools working group can help with the Business case
* Rules Working group can help with the Open Source Standard/requirements
* Dugald is representing Justice from the government for the Rules working group
* Open First Day: We want participation of all working groups for logistics, materials etc. High level context will be posted soon for feedback
* If you have any questions about this roadmap, please email Guillaume
* How does this get actioned within the federal government?
  * Inform policy that we create in Treseaury Board of Canada Secretariat.
  * Goal of putting the whitepaper together is to provide feedback about licensing, help business planning moving forward within application portfolio management
  * Business plan: will go to the EARB and not the Whitepaper. It has already been shown to EARB
* The working groups will present at the Open Source Advisory Board meetings, the topics of the presentations should feed into the Whitepaper.
* If you think there is anything missing, interested in a topic and/or would like to provide feedback to the Whitepaper, please email Guillaume or Ashley

### 3. Digital Playbook
To view the Digital Playbook, please visit https://github.com/canada-ca/digital-playbook-guide-numerique
* We contribute to the work in the digital standards in the open by default and use of open standards and solutions. More specifically we contribute to the items 5.5 work in the open and make source code open and reusable and 6.1 Leverage open standards and embrace leading practices
* Anyone can contribute to this as it is in draft.
* Influenced by other governments, i.e. UK
* 5.5 might get merged to 5.1 in the changes of digital standards.
* For a broader system/long-term change, where open source is being considered by the government of Canada. Need your input on this digital playbook
* Knowledge based approach: way of getting content together and is not a final product.
* How and when will the digital playbook be presented to the department?
  * Working on the rough draft now and then there will be consultation with communities. Aiming for a month for consultation. Long-term: follow the timelines of digital standards, late summer/early fall for first version
  * Open source consideration should naturally be a part of a process and not separate.
* The digital playbook is a part of an existing policy stack: the goal of this board is to get feedback to ensure that the government is moving in the right direction.
* Important to have examples about existing open source projects so that we can foster learning and collaboration from others, to understand what other people are working on

### 4. Adapting the assessment of GC Applications for Open Source
To view this presentation, please visit the Adapting the assessment of GC Applications for Open Source Slidewiki site [http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/40-1/slide/341-1/341-1:2/view](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/40-1/slide/341-1/341-1:2/view)
* Started posting an excel spreadsheet on GCConnex containing what applications are being used in different departments but would like to publish it on a searchable way, some applications will be internally facing while others will be externally facing on the open government portal
* Open source is underrepresented in application value and health assessment
  * Ratings for vendor support, nothing about having a community or foundation around it
  * If open source isn't represented here, it won't get a good rating
* Please provide feedback on slide 5 about this change to licence type and application source
  * Commercial addition can be paid or free, but can be discussed. Proper way to classify it or better way to do it (feedback is required)
  * Help identify what is possible to put open source, i.e. IP and licensing
* Right now there is no space for open source in the assessment
  * Making sure that open source is supported and vendors are still included
  * Send comments/ideas to us about this assessment
  * External support for open source: i.e. professional services, vendor etc.
  * Add definitions to assessment criteria.
* Scoring guide: rationalize the use of applications and make sure that open source is not scored at 0
* Improving a current system, make sure that when departments are going through the APM process, that open source is being identifiable and added to the inventory and not disadvantaged
  * Does not address foundational issue of digital services within the government of Canada
* Legend behind open source thinking that it is dangerous, there needs to be education around it to bust myths

### 5. Tools Working Group Presents Data Platforms: The Business Case for Hadoop
 To view this presentation, please visit the tools working group presents data platforms: The Business case for Hadoop Slidewiki site http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/41-1/slide/349-1/349-1:2/view
* Goal of the tools working group: Provided awareness to government of Canada on how broad and vast open source technologies are
* Cloudera presenting on Hadoop and Microsoft
* Rodney has started a new job so Vincent will be doing this presentation
* How many people are working on Open Source in the government of Canada?
  * We are trying to build better and stronger communities within the government
  * Environment Canada is the leader in Open Source

### 6. Update and work plan: Working Group Tools
* For this update please visit the [Tools Github page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/en/Working_Group_Tools/Tools.md)

### 7. Update and work plan: Working Group Rules
* Review and finalize Open Source Advisory Board terms of reference
* Review, clarify and provide guidance on Intellectual Property and Licences questions
  * Professional services contracts (IP, template, licences, etc.)
* Review draft "standards" for Software Code Source (Use and Contribution)
* Establishing criteria to use multiple tools
* Presentations from various groups:
  * Open Source @ Microsoft
  * Other topics/presenters
* Open First Day
  * Identify topics for workshops
    * Choosing the right licence
    * Procuring professional services and ensuring the right IP

### 8. Update and work plan: Working Group People
* For this update please visit the [People Github page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/en/Working_Group_People/Roadmap.md)
* Skills: support new users and refine the skills of experienced open source users

### 9. Roundtable

### 10. Close/discussion of forward agenda
* Todd from BC government to present to the advisory board and the Enterprise Architecture Review Board (EARB).
* Presentation from Redhat legal about Open Source 101: bring this up from the Rules working group. Forward agenda
* The Open Source Advisory Board will formally meet for 1.5 hours. However, there will be 30 minutes after the meeting to discuss informally just outside of the meeting room.

To view action items, please view our [Projects board](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/projects/1)
