[Français](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/fr/Rencontres/2019-01-16.md#conseil-consultatif-les-sources-ouvertes)

# Open Source Advisory Board 
January 16 2019, 9am-10:30am

## Agenda 
1. Welcome 
2. Security Categorization 
3. Update on legal requirements for Open Source 
4. A single source code version control platform for the whole GC
5. Open First and Cloud first 
6. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group 
7. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
8. Update and discussion: People Working Group 
9. Roundtable 

## 1. Welcome 
Attendees
* Natalie McGee, TBS 
* Marc Pageau, Oproma 
* Michael, Redhat
* Simon
* Caster Parham, Github 
* Will Stevens
* Gabrielle Cossette, SSC
* Janice Yates, TBS
* John Bain, SSC
* Reg Maltais
* Stephane Caron 
* Travis Brought
* John O’Brien, CDS
* Po-Tea Duncan, TBS Cyber security
* Dan Cooper, TBS
* Dugald Topshee, Justice Canada
* Robin Galipeau, OpenPlus 
* Mélanie Robert, TBS
* Dave Buchanan, Breqwatr 
* Richard Seguin, Redhat 
* Michael Cardy, Redhat 
* Paul Jackson, ISED
* Mathieu Fortin, SSC
* Sebastien Lemay, TBS
* Guillaume Charest, TBS
* Stacey Williams, TBS 
* Scott Levac, TBS


## 2. Security Categorization
To view this presentation, please consult the [Security Categorization Guidance Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/106)
* From a GC perspective, we must always categorize our information 
* Exemptions and exclusions from ATI Act:
  * Information should be open by default except those where another test needs to happen 
* CSC fully supports the use of Open Source
* The classification of information is one aspect, but the integrity of information will have to be considered as well even if it is unclassified
* Important to look at code from the end-to-end system, different layers of protection that we put in place when we build a product or solution
* TBS cyber is trying to develop more guidance on application development

Questions
* Any guidance/thoughts around machine learning algorithms? There are different opinions around whether the algorithms themselves should be treated sensitively or just the trained weightings
  * This is a program integrity question and not an cyber security topic 
  * Work is underway with the Algorithm Impact Assessment to address their question 

## 3. Update on legal requirements for Open Source
To view this presentation, please consult the [Update on legal requirements for Open Source Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/107)
* Frame questions about open source software for official legal opinions 

Questions
* How can we ensure that no clauses are added to Crown procurement contracts that would disadvantage or exclude the use of OSS?
* Should we add generic clauses or conditions to that explicitly allow use of OSS? If so, how and where?
  * Comments:
    * Instead of looking directly for Open Source in the RFPs, look for more of the use of  COTS
* For each scenario, how can we contract out support for a specific solution, after the solution has be selected, with the objective to maintain the current technology?
  * Comments
    * Need to update procurement rules for professional services contracts for the use cases we are looking for
    * How is it interpreted through international agreements?
    * Have positive examples of using Open Source 
* Is the use of the OSI as a reference for what licences are considered open source software licences acceptable for the GC?
  * CommentS
    * Add policy point saying that anything that doesn’t interfere with the Government of Canada’s ability to use, distribute and modify the software
* Are all GC departments and agencies part of the same legal entity, so that internal use of OSS (across the GC) would not be considered distribution and would not require publishing of source code?
  * Comments
    * Configuration vs. modification 
* Is the patent grant provided by the Apache 2.0 licence important for GC open source code?
* Should default be Apache 2.0 for all permissively licenced code?
  * Comments
    * Will these be questions that you will be asking legal to answer? 
    * Yes, no answers are expected at the moment
* When formulating the questions for Justice, it would be better to have more open ended questions, not yes or no questions. For example: Under which licences or circumstances.... is this important?
  * If we licence under the MIT or anything else that doesn’t include a patent grant, does that count as acceptable prior art that prevents an aggressive patent being used against us?
* Are the current clauses to request a license to material subject to copyright sufficient to allow the GC to publish the source code created as a result of a Crown procurement contract under an OSS licence?
* Could the contractor publish the source code under an acceptable permissive open source software licence?
* Should we add clauses or conditions to that explicitly allows GC to licence as open source software or states that the contractor must publish the source code? If so, how and where?
  * Comments
    * Isn’t this clarified in the Directive on Management of IT?
    * No, it doesn’t mentioned the procured code. It says all source code
* Can you confirm who has the authority to assign an OSS licence to source code developed by or for the GC?
* If ADM approval is required, how can this be delegated to IMSO (open information) or the CIO to enable working in the open?
  * Comments
    * Lower level of approval may be required or have a blanket approval
* Can you confirm that public servants can publish personal source code with their own copyright and any licence, including OSS?
* Can software be patented in Canada?
  * Comments
    * Are there certain licences that we cannot use?
    * Working on blanket approvals
    * We don’t have questions on contributing 

## 4. A single source code version control platform for the whole GC
To view this presentation, please consult the [A single source code version control platform for the whole GC Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/108)
* Currently departments are using different platforms and projects are not discoverable/no collaboration (not governed). We are hoping to have a platform where projects will be discoverable and collaboration between departments. 
  * When sharing information between departments, we are assuming that there is an assessment 
* Comments/questions
  * Do not confuse the source control with the website 
  * It is assuming that departments have an understanding whether their code is classified, unprotected etc. 
    * Yes, there is an assessment with this
  * Not proposing a technical solution
  * How high is this a priority for us to do?
  * If we go with SaaS offerings, how do we harness everyone under the same service? Do we want to do that?
  * GCDocs is a version control system, can we use that?
  * Should be an exercise on what the business need is. Is it version control, sharing etc.?
  * Operating model of the Open Data portal is a great example
  * Open Resource exchange: repository registry of Source code used by the government 
  * Provide good options of platforms/services for departments to use
  * There needs to be some clarification on the ask

## 5. Open First and Cloud first 
To view this presentation, please consult the [Open First and Cloud first Presentation](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/108)

* If there is a SaaS on the market, that is what we should be using (not creating our own)
* Observation from attendance: SSC broker service prevents departments from benefiting from pay as you go for small stuff and commercial AWS is per minute billing
  * The billing should be as flexible, additional clarification may be required to further explain the brokering model.
* If we go with SaaS first, does that mean that departments shouldn’t deploy Drupal first?
  * Departments should be asking why not SaaS?
* Is the Government of Canada’s procurement system actually geared to procure Saas?
  * Observation: Procurement may not be properly ready, departments will choose services based on what is easiest to procure
* TBS will not be telling you what to do, we have given guidelines so departments can research and pick the right service for them based on their needs
* How are departments containing the buying of saas services by credit cards outside of IT Shops?
* What about vendor proprietary SaaS solution vs OSS PaaS?

## 6. Update and discussion: Rules Working Group 
* Working on the legal questions
* Duncan Fraser also is looking at the questions and providing feedback
* Working with Redhat legal to set up a presentation for the advisory board

## 7. Update and discussion: Tools Working Group
* Andrew Sinkinson from Statistics Canada is the new government co-lead for this group
* Working on what GC source code system would look like
  * Technical requirements for developers and from a management perspective

## 8. Update and discussion: People Working Group 
* Open Source myth busting infographic 
  * Bring to the advisory board soon 
* Would like to run a Hack-A-Thon at the Open Government Partnership event 
  * Developer and executive track 

## 9. Roundtable 
* There are other jurisdictions that are so far ahead of us, France published an Open Source guide 
* Open Government Summit in May
  * Call for proposals for sessions will be sent out this month  
    * Sessions should be international 
  * There will be a tradeshow 
  * A working group for private companies may be established 

## Action items 
* Review the legal questions and provide any feedback/comments to Guillaume Charest. You can also provide other questions that may need to be asked
* Ask the coders in government what their needs are for a platform
* Private sector to self-identify their needs in a platform 
* Open Government team to send the link to the call for proposal sessions to the advisory board
