# Rules Working Group - Minutes

## Present

* Sebastien
* Al
* Jim
* Stacey
* Hervé Gendron
* Guillaume
* Johanne
* Daniel

## Agenda

* Review GitLab issues
* Review Directives (Use and Publish)
* Review Guides (Use and Publish)

## Minutes

* Reviewed issues
* Directives
  * Use of open source Software
    * Provision to have open source software security assessment in place: opportunity to highlight sound process for mature projects: Linux for instance.
    * Review with Cyber to see if the security dimension should be taken into its own set of requirements
    * Needs a balanced approach
  * Provisions around "relevant employees" have access to tools, might be interpreted in a way that only a few will have the ability to control everything and what others may be use. Leads to less innovation and additional constraints.
    * Needs balance again
    * Not only IT staff, needs to be available for line staff as well.
  * Publishing Open Source Software
    * Need to review policy on public servant work inventions
    * Need to make sure that work done by public servants that are on their own time are not forced to this. If the work of an employee is not done on behalf of GC, does it fall under that policy?
    * Requirement: need to ensure that this source code only affects GC source developeds.
    * Exceptions
      * Code that reveals operational processes (to be reviewed, see ATIP act)
      * Code related to unreleased or unnanounced policy or law.
      * Code that is going to be used to generate revenue for authorized department (to be removed).
      * Code that has already been released under another licence than open source.
      * Making the source code internally available to the Government as a whole where possible.
* Guides
  * Use of open source software
    * Cloud and SBITS: Need to discuss with Daniel for Templates
    * Evaluation -> Developer Community: Diversity, not single company or at least multiple stakeholders is preferrable.
    * Licence compliance evaluation
    * With modification
      * Configuration of the software considered as modification?
        * Need disambiguation
      * What about containers?
  * Documentation in both Official Languages might need to be done at each major releases.
    * Encourage contributors and development teams to express themselves in the language of their choice.
    * Might be a threshold needed for scope: international project vs localized script.
* Roundtable
  * Hervé: lots of material but will be brought to Dugald
  * Daniel: Open Source librarie from R -> dependencie to a librarie that wasn't open source: Risk
