# Open Source Advisory Board Meeting 
# March 15, 2018 
# 9:30 - 11:00 a.m. EST

## To join the online meeting
1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com/pwgsc-nh/j.php?MTID=ma5f87490c162f382f296e433ae2a7079
2. Enter your name and email address
3. Attendee access code: 320 160 2 
4. Click "Join Now"

## To joing the teleconference only 
Provide your phone number when you join the meeting to receive a call back. 
Alternatively, you can call: 

Call-in toll-free number: 1-877-413-4781  (Canada) 
Call-in number: 1-613-960-7510 (Canada)

Attendee access code: 320 160 2
Enter meeting password: g4yDBE72

## For assistance
1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com 
2. On the left navigation bar, click "Support". 
3. Call 1-800-226-6338 or 613-941-9554 

You can contact me at: ashley.casovan@tbs-sct.gc.ca 

## Agenda 
1. Welcome
2. Overview of Advisory Board for new participants
3. Open Source Software at PSC
4. Business Case
5. Open Source Inventory 
6. Call for agenda items 

## 1. Welcome 
Welcome to all of our participants in our meeting today. This meeting is growing and we are fortunate to have many people interested in this group. 

## 2. Overview of Advisory Board for new participants

The Terms of Reference can be found on the [about page.](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/1_About.md) If there is an issue with them, please let us know. If not we will confirm these Terms of Reference at the next meeting. 

## 3. Open Source Software at PSC

### A Case For Open Source Software At the PSC 
### Presentation By The Public Service Commision of Canada Information Technology Services Directorate
### March, 2018 

### Open Source Software at the PSC
* Leapfrog innovative business opporunity; and
* In line with the Public Service Commission's strategic decision to double down on Open Source Software (OSS).

### Business Problem

### Current PSC Context 
* Legacy development environments and systems operate in silos and are rarely enterprise centric.
* Strong dependencies between development and middleware teams. * Temporary transition environments costs prohibitive. Duplication of license costs. 
* Existing mix of proprietary and open source solutions and environments. 
* OSS has been used at the PSC in production since its first innovative web applications were deployed in the year 2000.

## GC Context 
* Digital 7: commitment to work together, exhcange and invest to promote digital 
* GC Digital Principles (Draft)* Proprietary software is no guarantee of success
«... Brison has argued the Phoenix crisis has forced the government to re-think how it manages, builds and buys technology.
...member countries signed the Digital 7 charter, which calls for commitments to **open standards, open source**...»
https://ipolitics.ca/2018/02/22/canada-joins-club-worlds-digital-government-leaders/ 

## OSS is Already Here 

## Cross-Jurisdiction and International Collaboration 
* The PSC is updating it's Open government Implementation Plan to include publishing open source software. * GC could support this collaboration by establishing certified/ standard products, tools, librariers, etc. 

## Considerations 

**Adoption**

* Community activity and maturity
* Google Trends of candidate product and competing solutions 
* Social media activity 
* Popularity on code repositories e.g. github

**HR**

* Job offers related to the product
* Training costs (readily available on MOOCs)
* Mentions in job profiles 

**Digital Government**

**Interoperability**

* Product features and innovation

**Maintainability**

* Availability on cloud 
* Ecosystem/Platforrm availability 
* Support network discussion activity e.g.  Stackoverflow 
* Status of open tickets
* Vulnerability reports of stable versions
* Documentation 
* Time to fix vulnerabilities 

**Legal**

* Open license model
* Enterprise level support (for those who want/need it)
* Standards compliance e.g. WCAG 2.0

## Mitigating Risks 

**Minimizing Support Risk**

The open source support community has a collaboration culture e.g. stackoverflow. Opportunities to co-fund development with other departments, levels of governments and countries. 

**Safety Net**

Leading Open Source solutions have enterprise level support services from the lead development organization or from a wide range of consulting firms. 

**Security**

* Considerations for open souurce software are similar as for proprietary software. 
* Source code security audit possible and recommended. 
* Bug bounty could be explored. 
* GC wide support contracts for agreed upon standards (e.g. France). 
* Network security applicances already use OSS. 

**Minimizing Lock-In risks**

* Open-source solutions are a crucial step in ensuring mobility across cloud providers e.g moving workload to/from Google, AWS, Microsoft Azure etc.

## Values and Ethics

**Respect for Democracy**

Open Source is often developed and adopted folllowing democratic objectives. 

**Respect for People**

Diversity of contributions fromm a wide variety of backgrounds is a reality in the open-source field and the results. 

**Integrity**

There are no secret elements in the tools we use to deliver value to citizen e.g adoption of AI in the delivery of services. 

**Stewardship**

Investment in sustainable, open, affordable solutions is a cornerstone of good stewardship. 

**Excellence**

Now that open source solutions have had time to mature and meet their business objectives, they must be given equal consideration.

## Outcomes

**Recruitment**

Testomonals from students indicate that they are drawn to jobs which clearly identify the use of OSS. 

**Job Satisfaction**

More learning opportunities for employees supporting OSS solutions. Positive feeling of contributing to something bigger than even their organizations. 

**Code quality**

Coding in the open shines light on the work, forcing a higher standard. 

**Trust in Government**

Open government objectives met by the use of open code. 

**Economic Growth**

Any Canadian business can become a GC supplier, thus eliminating major barriers of entry for start-ups and SMEs. Anyone can reuse GC OSS, thus driving innovation and economic opporunities. 

**Innovation**

Allows for increase agility and reuse in the implementation of technical solutions. 

## Next Steps

Determine IP/ associated GC license for published code (e.g. MIT, Apache 2.0)Contribute back to the open source projects. 

## Philosophy 

**"Using, contributing and publishing open code is the foundation for the democratization of information technology in the public service."**

## Annex A- Case Study Example PSRS

* In 2001, Public Service Recruitment System (PSRS) was implemented with TOP Web, an early Java web framework that enforced MVC principles for web applications. 
* TOP Web source code was provided by The Object People to the PSC. 
* The Object People consultants left the PSC after the initial implementation of the system (Q4 2001).
* In-house PSC developers maintained and enhanced the framework **because** the full source code was made available as a requirement. 
* PSRS could not have evolved like it did without TOP Web being open source. Still in production today servicing hundreds of thousands of active users. 

## Annex B- Case Study Example Databses

* PSC is seeking to perform its enclave move as part of the Work Load Migration with Shared Services Canada. To do so, there is a requirement to move applications, group by group, from one server environment to an other. As such, database systems will exist in parallel, potentially for years. 
* Proprietary (clsoed source) license costs would have been unaffordable. Challenges in licensing of the RDBMS on shared infastructure and with other departments. * Summer students were able to mograte proprietary RDBMS Java applications that leverage open source software frameworks(e.g. Struts/Spring) using **PostgreSQL.** Other production ready alternatives with enterprise support exist. 

## Questions
* How are you collaborating with other departments?
  * Using Gitlab but it is challenging. 
* Do you look at open standards? What about sharing closed software?
  * Interopability, we need to pick the right software with the support of the community. Need maintenance and support standards. 
  * We have a different approach then other countries when it comes to sharing closed software. It's harder for larger vendor community
* Concerning Github, what security measures are in place to prevent mistakes?
  * Two controls: no one can delete and there is a backup in cloud. 
  * Many controls like fork and branch to review the code before publishing it.
* License workshop April 3, 2018.
* Considerations for solving problems   
  * Strength of community   
  * Shouldn't pick standards to early, we need flexibility to figure out which standard would work best
  * Legal working group
* How is open source affecting experienced employees compared to new grads?
  * The experienced employees find this change difficult. It is transforming their day-to-day work.

## 4. Business Case 

Please go to our [business case page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/2_Business_Case.md) for further details.

## 5. Open Source Inventory
* Ashley is creating an inventory of what projects people are working on.
* Build a community of practice with the Government of Canada. 


## 6. Call for agenda items 
* Inventories 
* Agile Procurement 
* Open Source Day 

## Action items 
* Working groups

## L'ordre du jour et présentations
1. Bienvenue
2. Aperçu du conseil consultatif pour les nouveaux participants 
3. Logiciel ouvert à la CFP
4. Analyse de rentabilité
5. Inventaire du code source ouvert
6. Appel de points pour l'ordre du jour

## 1. Bienvenue

## 2. Aperçu du conseil consultatif pour les nouveaux participants

## 3. Logiciel ouvert à la CFP
### Arguments En Faveur des Logiciels Libres À La CFP
### Présentation réalisée par la Commission De La Fonction Publique Du Canada Direction Des Services de Technologie De L'Information 
### Mars 2018 
