# Open Source Advisory Board Meeting
# April 18, 2018
# 9am-10:30am EST

## To join the online meeting 

1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com/pwgsc-nh/j.php?MTID=m434545e71be581d1e13986f819b47a08
2. Enter your name and email address. 
3. Enter the meeting password: 9Taub6D8
4. Click "Join Now". 
Please feel free to use the Webex chat box to relay any questions.

## To join the teleconference only 

Provide your phone number when you join the meeting to receive a call back. Alternatively, you can call: 

Call-in toll-free number: 1-877-413-4781  (Canada) 

Call-in number: 1-613-960-7510  (Canada) 

Attendee access code: 320 160 2 

## For assistance 
 
1. Go to https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com 
2. On the left navigation bar, click "Support". 
3. Call 1-800-226-6338 or 613-941-9554 

If you have any inquiries or concerns, you can contact: 
ashley.casovan@tbs-sct.gc.ca 

Add this meeting to your calendar (Cannot add from mobile devices): 
https://pwgsc-nh.webex.com/pwgsc-nh/j.php?MTID=m434545e71be581d1e13986f819b47a08

## Agenda 
1. Announce Working Groups:

   a. Rules
   
   b. Tools
   
   c. People
2. Open Source Day
3. Agile Procurement Presentation 
4. Github Best Practices Presentation 
5. Roundtable 

## 1.Announce Working groups: 

* To view the presentation please visit the [Open Source Working Groups April 18 Presentation Slidewiki website](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/30-1)

   a. Rules
   
   b. Tools
     * Jack will lead.
     * Broad topic: Provide more understanding of peoples technologies. Looking for collaboration: business and technical representation in this group. Work in the working groups and present their work the OSAB.
     * Propose: move the meeting around. First one in Kanata and then alternate different locations.   
     
   c. People
   
For the working groups, there will be support from CIOB and the GCTools team. The Open Source Secretriat will be present at all of the working groups meeting. The working groups will give a presentation of the work that they have done at the beginning of each Open Source Advisory Board meeting. 
   
## 2. Open Source Day
* To view the presentation please visit the [Open Source Working Groups April 18 Presentation Slidewiki website](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/30-1/slide/283-2/283-2:7/view)
* Target mid-June but we are working on it. 
* Melaine Robert: There is an Open Government week happening across Canada through the Open Government Portal from May 7-11, 2018. There is the possibility to have an open source event during this week. 

## 3. Agile Procurement Presentation
* Procurement as a process designed for risk minimazation. 
* Focused on outcomes, no using RFPs
* Currently there is a draft definition but we need to figure out what are missing in agile procurement. 
* Challenges: Licensing. How do we choose the right licence? 
* Next steps for Agile Procurement 
  * How do we improve th incentives for open source tools within these types of challenges
  * Clear definition of what we consider to be open source is required in this model-distinguish between full stack and partial

## Discussion
* Why did the accessibility procurement not work out?
* What do we mean by accessibility?
  * Canadians that have a disability, i.e. physical, cognition. 
* Accessibility: 
  * Accessibility by design and procurement is important 
* Tools working group: PDFS, open source standards.
* Challenge in open government groups: need for open source documents, procurement and accessibility 
* Are we overly tilting the scales?
* Is open source a best fit for procurement?
  * Documents need to be accessible. Accessible by default. 
* How do we improve the incentives for open source tools within these types of challenges
* Clear definition of what we consider to be open source is required in this model-distinguish between full stack and partial
* Open Source tools can be used to support improvement of accessibility-AX? PAlly?- Mike gifford to confirm 
* Will we get vendors from the non-open source for this model?
* Why is everything not open by default?
* Need to design correctly from the start
* Agile Procurement was very useful given that there was an improved understanding of what the challenge actually was
* Vendors Appreciate the short cycle of the agile process
* How to scale- business owners to help design the solution- if we can get a bunch of different owners to participate
  * If the procurement allows for future phhases- this is where you are able to scale. 
* What can be delivered for $75k- an MVP- determine next step proof of concept phase with potential of future phases
* Chris to sahre notes
* GCDEVExchange- fork of BC DevExchange
* Agile should have been baked into the project 
* BCDEVExchange- participate in the reverse indusry forum
* There are ways for vendors to innovate- find contractual mechanisms
* Expectations need to be clear from the onset
* Rodney: get excutives to come for Open Source Day about BC DEV exchange. Public sector presenter

## 4. Github Best Practices Presentation 

Please visit [Enabling Open Source](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/issues/14)

* 27.7M users
* Collective intelligence is better than individual 
* https://aka.ms/DocathonWiki 
* BC DEVExchange
  * Find work what is valued to you and you can go into the projects and contribute. 
* Vendors: Can choose multiple vendors to solve a problem but this might be expensive. The challenge is that this process is used for small applications owned by the government of Canada.
* Interoperability between different ministries: traffic cameras on the highway but forestry dept. wanted to use their code for it to track forest fires 
* co.gov: experimentation is being done with open resource exchange
* Capital One: example of how we connect to a community and contribute to it. 
* RBC Example: Open source and inner source is and was key for this project 
* Gitlab: similar Open Source product to Github
  * The Drupal community is moving stuff to gitlab for better collaboration. 
  * Github has two version: The public version and the enterprise
  * Gitlab is a good option for the Government
  * Can you run your own nob in the enterprise version? I.e. search blockchain on github enterprise, see everything that the different government departments are doing but public can't see it
* Can you transfer github enterprise to public? Yes
* Do you support classification of code? .
* Need to be able to share code more- so that we can re-use
* What does the architecture look like?
* Objectively stylish
* Github does change terms of reference for government 

## 5. Roundtable 

## Action Items
* Establish a lead for the Rules and People working groups
* Melaine Robert: send email to Ashley for open government week. 
* Determine date for Open Source Day
* Presentation on BC DEVexchange 
* Standards and culture surrounding the use of open source code. 


## L'ordre du jour

1. Annonce des groupes de travail:

   a. Règles
   
   b. Outils
   
   c. Personnes
2. Journée Source Ouverte
3. Présentation sur l'approvisionnement agile
4. Présentation sur les pratiques exemplaires liées au Github 
5. Table ronde 

## 1. Announce des groupes de travail: 
   a. Règles
   
   b. Outils
   
   c. Personnes
   
## 2. Journée Source Ouverte

## 3. Présentation sur l'approvisionnement agile

## 4. Présentation sur les pratiques exemplaires liées au Github 

## 5. Table ronde 
