# Open Source Advisory Board Meeting 
May 16, 2018, 9:30-11am

## Agenda 
1. Update: Working Group Rules 
2. Update: Working Group Tools
3. Update: Working Group People
4. Working Group Alignment
5. Leveraging Open Source for the Future Digitial Landscape
6. The DevExchange
7. Roundtable

## Ordre du jour
1. Mise à jour: Groupe de travail sur les "Règles"
2. Mise à jour: Groupe de travail sur les "Outils"
3. Mise à jour: Groupe de travail sur les "Personnes"
4. Harmonisation des groupes de travail
5. Tirer parti des logiciels libres pour le paysage numérique de l’avenir
6. Le DevExchange
7. Table ronde

## 1. Update: Working Group Rules 

To view the presentation, please view the [Update Working Group Rules Slidewiki site](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/38-1)
* There is some overlap with the Open First Whitepaper, we need to look at what other topics are being discussed so that we are not having the same discussion 
  * Reuse what is already out there
  * Deliverables
    1. Draft standard around open source for GC
    2. Finishing up the Whitepaper
    3. Define legal components/dependencies for each of the five major elements. Legal impacts to government like policy, procurement etc. This will feed into the business case

## 2. Update: Working Group Tools
To view this update, please view the [Working Group Tools github page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/Working_Group_Tools/Tools.md)
* Have an open source platform that went through the security and showed evidence, that is fully reusable for the departments. Shared which ones have security accreditation 
* Show vendors how to get security accreditation- What is considered Protected B in the government 
* Drupal: misunderstanding about security. What is the process used within the community and the team that is maintaining it?  What is management’s approach to securing software on the internet?
  * Something for rules to work on 

## 3. Update: Working Group People
To view this update please view the [Working Group People github page](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/Working_Group_People/May%2014%202018%20WG%20Meeting)
* Assessing where we are now and where we would like to be in 1 year 
* Don’t focus solely on the development skills but also the platform skills (engineering)
* Benefits to business: both using OSS and changing the culture, bring back to OneGC
* How do you maintain? Full life cycle of open source

If you are interested in participating in a working group or to be a chair please let Ashley know. We are still looking for a government chair for the rules and the tools working group. 

## 4. Working Group Alignment 
* One member of Ashley's team will attend each working group meeting to help move the discussion forward and ensure that the work in aligning with the Whitepaper
* Ashley's team will leverage subject matter experts to the different working groups
* Draft presentations from working groups, open by default.
* Going forward we will have the working group updates at the end of the agenda and after the official agenda we will have a 30 minute informal discussion for the working groups to cross-pollinate

## 5. Leveraging Open Source for the Future Digitial Landscape

To view this presentation please view the [Leveraging Open Source for the Future Digitial Landscape Slidewiki site.](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/36)
* How can open source teams help us define tools to reach the digital landscape?
* Where are the big opporunities for open source?
*	Government of Canada Digital standards
  * About our common view of what good looks like in the GC, key for going forward
*	Open source will fit in digital standard:
  * Collaborating widely 
  * Work in the open by default 
  * Use open standards and solutions 
  * Design ethical services: ethics and open source
* Enterprise Architecture Review Board (EARB) looks at all projects and investments going forward in the GC. When you come to EARB make sure you are following the digital model 
* Address the value of open source in the build it right rules 

Discussion/Comments
* This model tells us to build tools and then release them. 
* Is the government of Canada looking to build and Xroad? Or use an existing one?
* It is difficult for vendors to get a basic open platform up and running to do a prototype for a government department 
  * Our systems of record approach are for certain pieces. strangle pattern, i.e. we are not going to replace SAP but we can surround it with open source platforms 
  * Majority of our architecture is ready for open source 
* How can open source help architecture patterns?
* Would like your feedback on this presentation, message Floyd

## 6. The DevExchange
To view this presentation please view [The DevExchange Slidewiki site.](http://slidewiki.aksw.org/deck/37-1/slide/319-2/319-2:1/view)
* DevExchange: make your proposal as easy as possible it only has to be 1 page, not like and RFP.
* Issue with pro-services: different way of procuring services 
* Ownership and governance: This project needs to be owned and governed by a different department, it is not in the mandate for PCO
* Join the peer review draft opporunities on the GCConnex page
* Email Rachel if you have any questions or create an issue on Github

Dicussion/Comments
* Asked Todd Wilson to come to Ottawa to talk about the BC DevExchange: Best practices and lessons learned.
* There are innovative procurement ways to responsibly use government money to advance the agenda and issues, we need to invest in people
* Concern about bringing a solution requirement to the table. It is hard to get the department to say that this is beneficial at the micro level 

## 7. Roundtable 
* There is a legal working group looking at open source by default with automated decisions applications. The rules working group could work with them. 
* How will Open Source be supported
* Encourage more business development in Canada
* Iteration process- mechanisms for feedback aren't clear
* Is the GC looking at tying what is happening with Open Source with the innovation program?
  * We will keep you posted on this 

To view action items, please view our [Projects board](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/projects/1)


