# Meeting Minutes - 2018-11-29

Presence

* Al Akdari
* Jim Cowie
* Chris Jaja

## Hackathon - Seek interest for GC departments

* What format could this take?
  * Problem definition, audience, department, etc.
  * Need high level business sponsor.
* Licence model, logistics, etc.
* Developers mostly attendance, would need less about devs and more around business users/partners.
  * Need proper communication/messaging around the concept.
  * Need CIOC comms involved but also through DMCEPP?
* Al has some "prepackaged" format that could be leveraged.

## Action items

* Al - Start high level plan for Hackathon + case study
* GC & Jim - Start communicating with business partners (through OSAB or via communities)
* GC - Work with graphics designer
