# Attendees
* Richard Seguin, Redhat
* Christopher Jaja, TBS
* Sebastien Lemay, TBS
* Sherminehs
* Jim Cowie, ESDC
* Stacey Williams, TBS
* Erin, Robot Missions

## Roadmap and key milestones
* Provide an update on roadmap for next OSAB, not a full presentation
* For now, we will be using Github as our tool to post and contribute

## Priorities/Objectives
* From [May 14 meeting](2018-05-14.md#objectives) we need to prioritize our objectives
* We are formalizing the Whitepaper: People working group can feed into the open culture and open market aspect of the Whitepaper (can be tasked based)
  * Sherminehs can help with this
  * This work can be done offline
* Need to look at long-term objectives: focus on fiscal year
* Planning Open First Day in September: opportunity to engage with the community but we also need to focus on what we after that day to  keep the momentum going
* Richard from Redhat can contribute information around open culture, open decision framework
* Next week's OSAB meeting: present our roadmap via our page on github with bullet points. Put your ideas [into this page](Roadmap.md)
  * Open culture/ open decision framework: Richard to push whitepapers to github
* Business case: is it about the business case for people within the government to use open source or outside companies helping the government?
  * Work with outside vendors for open source solutions, might not have the capacity to do it within the government. How do we manage change in mentality in the government?
  * Marc Thompson: digital currency, talk to him about history of CLouderX, have him at Open First Day in September. Has experience working in the government and understands roadblocks.
  * Clark Thompson: solutions architect, developer. Focus on Open Source products, connected to blockchain and AI
  * Ann: founder of GDPR, privacy by design, product: smart data, competes with Alexia. This can be a part of the business case
* Outreach group: David Cramm, need more than just one meeting, we need re-occurring meetings for the CS group. For open source we have the AGORA, we need something for the culture aspect.
  * Break down silos within the government

## Action items
* Contribute to the Roadmap: focus on our main priorities with a timeframe. Look at the [May 14 meeting](2018-05-14.md#objectives) and contribute to the roadmap [into this page](Roadmap.md)
* Whitepaper is a priority: in terms of timing, trying to have a formal draft it within 2 weeks, need to present it to OSAB
* Create a team on github for this group
* Work asynchronisly and have shorter meetings
* Send Guillaume an email if you don't have access to GCcollab and he'll add you to it.
