# People Working Group Meeting Minutes - 2018-11-02

## Attendees

* Guillaume Charest
* Stacey Williams
* Richard Seguin
* Paul Bellows
* Jim Cowie

## Recap from last meeting

* Different ways of communication and raising awareness (I.e. banners, newsletters)
* GCCollab and GCmessage use

## Roundtable

* Richard: Rebecca is scheduled to do her presentation at the people working group for November 14th and will present at the next OSAB on the 21st.
* Jim: OSS Framework Working Group, large attendance, monthly meetings (2 sub working groups going on), participants report their work to their supervisors and disseminates. A mechanism to share internally. Jim also shares this information with the other OSAB working groups
  * Blanket authorization initiative for contribution to 3rd party projects
    * Sharing of IP is authorized at the director general level
    * Trying to open the door for the developer community to get involved in OSS projects with some limitations
* Guillaume: Newsletter: working with CDS about open source and working in the open
  * The OSS communication strategy can be worked on by the people working group
  * Need to write more blogs
  * Work with the school to promote material

## Action items

* Confirm Christopher Allison's email
* Guillaume to share links to the different resources
* Richard has harnessed online resources (PDFs etc.)  that need to be sent to Guillaume and Stacey to share to the group
* Stacey to give collaborator rights to the members of the people working group
* StaceyL Work on making the Github site more friendly for collaboration
* If anyone has experience in structuring a site, let us know. We would like to reorganize the Github page to make it more user friendly
* Create a page in Github for a place that'll be the single place to go to get information
* Review the rules roadmap
