# People Working Group

2019-01-09

[Français](https://github.com/canada-ca/OS-Advisory_Conseil-SO/blob/master/fr/Groupe_de_travail_Personnes/2019-01-09.md#groupe-de-travail-sur-les-personnes) 

## Present

* Al Akdari
* Guillaume Charest
* Jim Cowie
* Richard Seguin
* Mike Cardy
* Sang Trinh

## Agenda

* Update on last OSAB
  * Breaking down the silos of software development
  * Working in the open: everyone in all departments should see your projects running.
  * Jim: lead by example, clean up repos
  * Mike: CIO of Provinces meeting - BC DevExchange was mentioned to help work in the open
    * Hackathon was used but there was a CIO-level "training/roadshow" to support the transition. (Leveraged other organizations guests)
    * CIO of the province changed the policy around source code being open.
  * Hackathon could be organized within 4 weeks but recommended VCS solution would most likely not be up
  * Opportunity to leverage the Open Gov Partnership
  * Mike: BC Province CIO might be able to speak.
    * Used BC/Ontario template
* Update on last People WG Meeting
  * Training: BC province may have additional resources.
    * Open Decision Framework presentation from Rebecca
      * How do you do it though?
      * Based on peer reviews - commits
    * Open Source Innovation resources

## Roundtable

Sing: Adoption of open source in the use, mixed blockers: culture and policy. Hackathon may provide a great opportunity but policy can help support the interest from all levels.

Draft policy instrument: https://github.com/canada-ca/open-source-logiciel-libre/blob/master/README.md

Jim: interested to work on the Hackathon

Al: Confirmed would like to participate in the Hackathon

Mike: Modernizing innovation process through the hackathon. Sort of contest for putting in place their innovation pipeline or best open source project?

Richard: Takeaway items taken.

## Action Items

* Call for guests to speak to source code in the open.
* High level plan for hackathon
  * Guests speaking
  * Business challenge
    * Devs to bring in their own source code, containerize it, open source it.
  * Logistics
  * Funding question - How can we crowdsource this challenge?
* Communication tool for the preparation of the hackathon 
