Microsoft presentation
* Annnounced intention to acquire Github 
  * Their team works with Github, learned what does and doesn't work at large 
* Small team managing the Open Source iniatiative at Microsoft
* How do we use open source at the beginning 
* Teach people how to contribute back to open source: keep up to date with the community as a best practice
* Issues with licensing, copy right, what tools do we need to do that?
* Just over 11 thousand repos on Microsoft, all microsoft employees can see the projects (having conservations in the open)
  * Only accessible to Microsoft employees
* Enable businesses to do what they need, engineers are out customers
* Component registration is manadatory 
* Reducing friction: Microsoft doesn't ask if the product is in competition with Microsoft, the answer is always yes.
  * Eliminating rules was helpful 
* Up to the team to decide what open source products that they want to use
* What considerations went into the decision to use the MIT licence?
  * Patent concerns 
  * MIT doesn't have to assign copyright to microsoft, everyone owns their copyright 
  * More collaborative 
* Government lens: this relates to licensing, points about automation and business rules that need to be followed

Review Open Source Advisory Draft Board Terms of Reference 
* Please review them on our about page 
* For the next OSAB meeting we need to have a formal version/recommendation to move forward 
* Things to think about: is the seat on the board a person or a company? Duration of terms, renewals etc. 

Review of task list 
* Guillaume to share the link to the Open Standard to the group, will need this group's input on 
* Open first day in September: can be involved in the presentations. Justice could deliever a presentation on AI, standards etc. 
* Current TBS policy for engaging inprofessional services does not favour open source (falls under procurement)
* The material that is currently being released in the GC, who is authorized to release it?
  * Recommend the CIO 
* Create a document for the roadmap for this group. 
  * Review objectives, prioritize them and estimate how long it will take to get a recommendation. 
* Everyone to review the task list and prioritize them. 
* Could microsoft share some of their presentations to us that we we can re-use and modify it 
* We are working on establishing criteria to use multiple tools and not just one. 
